Herewith the first episode of the various routines available in the APAC sytem
for running a business.

I am sending the purchases/expenses as the first example and will advise that 
the 'DEM' system be used to practice these routines. 


PURCHASES.

The types of purchases that are usually made by a business are:

	STOCK-    Stock for resale.
	          Raw materials to manufacture finished products.
		  Components for resale or to assemble finished products.

	ASSETS-   Furniture, Computers or other office equipment.
	          Motor vehicles.
		  Property or fixtures to property eg. Carpeting etc.

	EXPENSES- Cleaning materials.
		  Consumables (Tea, Coffee, Sugar etc)
		  Maintenance to Vehicles, Equipment, Buildings etc.

                  (There are other expenses that are not purchases such as
		   Rent, Telephone, Electricity, Rates etc, for which Tax
		   invoices are also received).

The APAC system can handle all of the above in various ways, depending on the
requirements of the user.

STOCK. Purchases of stock may be entered via stock invoices in the Creditor
       system if the user wishes to control stock or if sale invoices are to
       reflect item codes and descriptions.

       To use stock invoices, the stock items should have been data captured 
       into the stock file, and the supplier details must have been data 
       captured into the creditor file. (The system does allow for stock items 
       to be data captured while entering invoice details, if the item is not 
       present in the stock file).

       The keys to press from the program control menu are 2, 2, 1 which will 
       load the creditor stock invoice program which will allow the user to key
       in the purchase invoice details. This program will update the creditor 
       account and the stock records for which purchase details have been keyed
       in. The purchases analysis, purchases cardex statistcs and input vat 
       statistics will also be updated. If the general ledger has been set up
       as integrated, the system will generate the necessary entries into the
       integration batch file to update the creditors control, stock control 
       and input vat accounts in the general ledger.

ASSETS. When assets are purchased the system allows the user to enter the 
       invoice details via the invoicing option in the Creditors Transactions
       (G/L) menu. This option allows the user to key a general ledger account
       number (Assett) instead of a stock item code. The general ledger account
       must have been opened before this transaction can take place.

       The keys to press from the program control menu are 2, 4, 1 which will 
       load the creditor transactions (G/L) invoicing program which will allow
       the user to key in the details of the purchase. The creditor account, 
       Creditor control account, the Asset account in the general ledger, the 
       input vat account and the vat statistics will be updated by the system.

       The same procedure is followed for expenses and the only difference is 
       that the assett account is a balance sheet account while the expense
       accounts are trading (operating statement) accounts.

       The system allows the user to process these purchases/expenses without 
       using a creditor account if they are cash/C.O.D. purchases by using the 
       cheque requisitions option in the general ledger, transaction menu.

       The keys to press from the program control menu are 4, 1, 3 which will 
       load the cheque requisitions program and allow the user to key in the 
       details of purchase/payment.       

       Please note that according to the VAT law only Invoices, Credit notes,
       Debit notes and Discount transactions are valid VAT transactions and the
       system will only record these transactions in the VAT statistics report.
       If option 4/1/3 is used the system will not record these details in the
       vat statistics, although the input vat account is updated using this
       method. The user will have to manually reconcile the vat report at month
       end if this procedure is followed. We have requested the Receiver of 
       revenue to allow us to also use this method to update and record the VAT
       statistics but until permission is granted the manual method will have
       apply.

PAYMENT OF CREDITOR ACCOUNT.

The system allows for two methods of paying a creditor.

1) If the user is not using the general ledger as an integrated module in the 
   APAC system the cheques issued option in the creditor transaction menu must
   be used to record payments of a creditor account. The cheques issued program
   is loaded by pressing the 2, 2, A keysfrom the program control menu.

2) If the general ledger is integrated, then the cheques issued option in the
   creditors transactions (G/L) menu must be used to record payments of a 
   creditor account. This option will update the creditor account, creditor
   control account and the bank account.


NOTES.

   The above describes in brief the purchases and payments made methods that 
   can be used in the APAC system.

   Please note that this document assumes that the stock system will be used
   by the user.

   The APAC system does allow for a business to run without using the stock 
   system and this will be covered in another document. 

   A more detailed document covering purchases/expenses and payments of 
   creditor accounts will follow at a later date.

   To follow exactly what is happening in the APAC system, we suggest that
   the demonstration system be used and that the following procedures be 
   run before starting to practice the routines that follow.

   Start the APAC system and log into the 'DEM' system. 

   a) Select clear quanties in the stock system by pressing 1, 1, 4 and 3 from
      the program control menu. The password is ZEROST. This will clear all the
      quantities in the stock file. When the routine is complete press the Esc
      key until you are back at the program control menu.

   b) Select clear balances in the creditor system by pressing 2, 6 and 1 from
      the program control menu. The password is ZEROCR. This will clear all the
      creditor balances and the creditor transaction file. Press the Esc key
      until you are back at the program control menu.

   c) Select age accounts in the creditors system by pressing 2, 1 and 6 from
      the program control menu. This will clear monthly statistics figures in
      the creditor system. Press the Esc key until you are back at the program
      control menu.

   d) As the only systems that are going to be used are the stock, creditors
      and general ledger in this exercise we will skip the debtor system and 
      select post integration batch in the general ledger system by pressing
      4, 3 and 3 from the program control menu. Accept the date as shown on the
      screen. This routine will post all the transactions in the integration 
      batch and then clear the integration file. Press the Esc key until you
      are back at the program control menu.

   e) Select clear all balances in the general ledger system by pressing 4, 7
      and 1 from the program control menu. The password is ZEROGL. This will
      clear all the balances in the general ledger. Press the Esc key until
      you are back at the program control menu.

   f) Select Period End/Dates from the program control menu by pressing 7 and 1.
      Select Day-End reports (1) and answer yes to the question. Select 0 for 
      both the menus that follow and you should then be back at the Period End
      menu. Select month end clear (2) and then 8 on the menu that is displayed.
      Press zero to return to the period end menu. Select Year-End clear (3) 
      and then 8 at the next menu. Press zero to return to the Period-end menu.
      Select value added tax (D) and select delete and key in the starting date
      as 010190 and the ending date as the current date. Select All. Press 0 to
      exit and answer yes to the question. Press the Esc key to return to the
      program control menu.

      
      All the files have been cleared and it will now be possible to view only
      the figures that are generated by the transactions that are processed 
      during the execise that follows.


   We suggest that you use one of the creditors on the demonstration system
   aswell as a few of the stock items listed to test/practise the stock 
   invoicing system. In the demonstration system use the lookup routines in
   the stock and creditors modules and write down the account number and the
   item codes that will be used. 

   Decide on a quantity and cost price to use for each item, an invoice date 
   and invoice number before going into the invoicing program. Use a calculator 
   to cross cast the various figures aswell as the total for the invoice 
   (including the vat) as it will be easier to follow what the system is doing 
   as these details are keyed in, if you have these figures to follow.

   View the general ledger accounts in the general ledger system and select one
   or two expense accounts (account numbers starting with 3 and having the last
   two digits not equal to 00). Select an asset account (account number starting
   with a 5 or 6 having the last two digits greater than 00).

   Once again write down the details of the asset that will be purchased and the
   details of the expenses that you wish to use in this exercise. It would be
   worth while using more than one transaction for each of the above.

   Decide on what payment will be made to the creditor and make a note of these
   details.

   Using the methods as described at the beginning of this document, enter and
   process the transactions you have selected.

   After having processed these transactions post the integration batch as 
   described previously.

   Print the Vat report instead of deleting it. Print the purchases statistics
   in the period end menu. 

   Print a creditors cash flow and purchase journal in the creditors system.

   Print a trial balance in the general ledger (exclude zero balances).

   Use the enquiry options in the stock, creditors and general ledger to view
   the changes and transactions that have been recorded.

   If there are any problems or queries at this stage please make a note of 
   these or phone to discuss.



   I hope that this is sufficient as a first exercise.





   Regards

   Jimmy.      